---
layout: post
title:      "Life in Transition"
date:       2019-02-20 18:21:54 +0000
permalink:  life_in_transition
---


At the age of 30, I feel like I've never really taken control of my future or made decisions on my career path that are based on future plans. I have been lucky, don't get me wrong. I've always had a decent job, even after becoming a very unexpected mother at 19 I seemed to fall into jobs when I really needed them. In school, I always excelled in art and technology based courses. This seemed to confuse me since I had always seen them as opposing skills, the creative expressionist versus the analytical problem solver. I decided to try and tie in both and head down the path of a graphic designer. However, during my extremely non-traditional college experience over the course of 10 years, I had to pick up jobs when and where they were available. I couldn't be choosy, I was a single mother with a daughter to support. The jobs I had started off being very clerical, administrative assistant to lab tech assistant etc... Then, I landed a IT Coordinator job at a nearby college. This job was absolutely NOT going to be a tech job, I was assured. I was to coordinate between departments as a representative of the IT department, help with project management, and ordering. However, Two months after I started, half the department was either let go or quit on their own accord. Myself and two of my co-workers were left with the work made for 10 people. I had no choice but to learn all things IT and learn them fast. So I dove in and who woulda thought..... I absolutely loved it.

All things IT seemed so fun to me. I loved having errors to fix, I loved having a situation and working with my co-workers to find creative solutions that would work best for all involved. I even loved being thrown on help desk and assisting students with their technology struggles (for awhile.... this specific task got old quick, I won't lie). After that job, my career path just naturally stayed on the IT train. 

I quickly learned that my knowledge was somewhat specific to the institutions I had worked for, and if I really wanted to take hold of my future, and get the job opportunities that would secure my future, I would need some direction and training. But, when you're comfortable at a job, making enough money to sustain your lifestyle, it is hard to mix things up to secure a better future. Thankfully, my life got mixed up for me! I met a boy.

Two years later, I'm married, relocating to another state and 4 months pregnant. I was stuck in a jigsaw puzzle of a situation, trying to figure out the best way for the pieces to fit together as quickly as possible. Do I try to find an IT job that will take me just based on my specific experience without any training or school? Do I get a non-IT job and take a pay cut? Will I want to stay home with my newborn for a few months instead of sending them to daycare so early on? Who will get my daughter from school at 3:30 every day if I'm working 30 minutes away from home? Who would want to hire a pregnant woman who doesn't know if she wants to stay at that job for more than 3 months? Lets just say if I ever needed to make a pros and cons list, this was the time. Still didn't though... I only really see people make those in movies.

After hours and hours of back and forth conversations with my husband and family, I decided this was an opportunity to make a very intentional choice for my future. I must admit, I preferred being guided through jobs and my life by random opportunities that presented themselves. However, I couldn't wait around this time for the world to present me with a solution. I came to the conclusion that I wanted to stay home with my new baby when the time came, and make money working from home. This wasn't necessarily a solution, but it was a direction at least. Now... to find a work from home job. I hear about these all the time! Been on Pinterest lately? "10 work from home jobs anyone could do" tiles are always popping up. I'll just do any of the 10 options, it'll be easy! I quickly realized it wasn't going to be that simple. I can't be a blogger, I'm not the right type of person. I love typing, so I should be a transcriptionist!! Then I quickly realized the time and effort versus pay ratio.... not ideal when I will have a baby to keep and need the precious time I do spend on work to really pay off. Finally, I remembered my friend from high school. He attended a coding bootcamp and was happy he did. I reached out to him to get his opinion, to make sure he didn't regret it, and to see (as casually as I could) what type of living wage he was making now because of it. 

He admitted it was hard work, and wasn't for everyone. I'd get sick of it he'd said, and I'd want to throw my laptop against the wall a few times a month, or even day. But, if I enjoyed coding, it was a great option for my situation. So I dove in. I researched several coding bootcamps, found one that fit my upcoming schedule as well as possible and applied. 

I don't know what my future holds, and don't even know if this will pay off in the end. But, I must say I am happy I decided to invest in myself and make an intentional investment in my future. Everyone says you can be whatever you want to be. Whether you get there or not is up to you and how hard you want to work for it. I'm hoping I'm up for the challenge!
